
NAME: CalAmp Corp.
CID: 0000730255

Mar 14, 2006

"magic" screen feb 06

Manufactures microwave transmission equipment as well as smaller, two-way transmission equipment.  Main product is DBS satelite reception equipment which makes of 95%+ of all revenue.

nov05 to feb05
inc 5,439   	3,681   	1,977   	3,234
shares 23,592K (diluted)
price 9.83
==>
Income $14.3M
EPS $0.61
PE 16.2
MC $231.9M

Next quarter looks to be seasonably weak.  Also one customer is transitioning to a different product which should weaken next quarter a bit as well.  Waiting might provide a buying oportunity.

Company sees brodband, PVRs, and HDTV as continuing to drive their businiess.  (Cable/satelite)

10K/10Q

Solid balance sheet cash:$36M equals total liabilities.

Contracts out dish and circuit board manufacturing.  This allows them to easily swap suppliers to keep costs low.

US sales represent 95%+ of revenue.

Echostar (owns DISH) and DirectTV represents 60% of sales.  Losing either of these customers would be disastrous.

Competitors: Sharp Corporation, Wistron NeWeb Corporation,
Winegard Company, Andrew Corporation, Microelectronics Technology, Inc. and
ProBrand.  Many other competitors in the solutions space including Wind River and BSQUARE.

Company controls patents but doesn't seem to rely on them:
"The Company's timely application of its technology and its design,
development and marketing capabilities have been of substantially greater
importance to its business than patents or licenses."

Churn is an important aspect of the business model:
"Demand for the Company's satellite television reception products is
driven not only by the growth in the overall DBS subscriber base, but also by
product upgrade cycles and subscriber "churn".  Churn, which is defined as
subscribers whose service is disconnected for any reason, is an important
factor driving demand for the Company's satellite products because the
outdoor reception equipment typically is not redeployed by the service
provider when churn occurs.  Average monthly churn in the U.S. DBS market was
approximately 1.5% in calendar year 2004.  Given the average size of the U.S.
satellite television market of about 23 million subscribers during calendar
2004, this means that in calendar 2004 the aggregate churn amounted to
approximately 4.4 million subscribers."

More details on the expected first quarter downturn:
"Subsequent to February 28, 2005, the Company experienced a significant
reduction in orders from the U.S. DBS service providers, which are the two
key customers of its Products Division.  Based on information obtained from
these key customers, the Company believes that the primary reason for the
decline in orders is that these key customers are adjusting their inventory
holding levels.  The Company believes that this is a temporary situation and
does not, in management's judgment, represent a fundamental shift either in
its market share or the DBS industry as a whole.  The Company expects that
this decline in orders will adversely affect sales and results of operations
for the first quarter of fiscal 2006.  The Company believes that its DBS
business will improve in the fiscal 2006 second quarter as these two key
customers reach their target inventory levels and resume normal ordering
patterns."
