
NAME: Redhook Ale Brewery Inc.
CID: 0000892222

Mar 1, 2005

Local brewery, I used to like them.  Nothing special about the
product.  Big spike in Jul2004 after a distributions announcement with
Anheuser-Busch.  First glimpse of profitablility in Jun04 after years
of negative earnings.  Fourth quarter 2004 was bad: reduced revenue
and earnings.

< $50M MC

Dec 16, 2005

The company is still not making money.  Stock is down 0.5 to 3.1 from March.

MC is only 26M.  Current assets only 10M but plant and property bring total assets up to 74M.  Total liabilities only 13M.  The company seems to be on the verge of profitability so is this an asset play?

From 10Q: production is currently below capacity so increased sales will result in increased gross margins.

Bad news for estabilished sales:
"""
A significant portion of the Company’s sales continue to be in the Pacific Northwest region, which the Company believes is one of the most competitive craft beer markets in the United States, both in terms of number of market participants and consumer awareness. The Company continues to face extreme competitive pressure in Washington state, which is not only the Company’s largest market but is also its oldest market. From 1997 through 2004, the Company experienced a decline in sales volume in Washington state of approximately 17%. Management believes that the decline can be partially attributable to the relative maturity of the brand in this region and, more recently, the formation of Craft Brands. The Company believes that the beer industry is influenced by individual relationships. The transition to Craft Brands impacted its established wholesaler and retailer relationships which, prior to Craft Brands, had existed for many years. Because the transition to Craft Brands took longer than anticipated, and because nearly all the Company’s sales staff responsible for Washington state left the Company, the Company and Craft Brands have had to re-establish many of these relationships with wholesalers and retailers. Shipments to Washington state increased by 0.6% in the third quarter of 2005 compared to the same 2004 period. 
"""

As much as I'd like to get excited about this company, I just can't.  Pressure from craft brewing from below and pressure from large breweries from above.

Nov 1, 2009

Change name from Red Hook to Craft Brewers Alliance Inc.  2008 Merger with Widmer.

Stock if overall flat for five years but market cap doubled to $59M.  Must have raised a lot of money in stock offerings or given it away with options or merger.

Interesting, RH ESB was losing sales to the general IPA market so company rebranded RH IPA to Long Hammer IPA.  Total brands include RH, Widmer and Kona.

I still don't see the story in this.

