NAME: Sylvamo Corporation
CID: 0001856485

Oct 1, 2021

Spinoff from international paper.

TRADE BUY 22@24.18 balance 22 commission 0.0

Jan 29, 2022

Recommended by Meryl Witmer in Barrons.

"""
My next pic, Sylvamo [SLVM], was spun out of International Paper in October. It has abourt 44M shares outstanding and a stock price of $29.75, for a market cap of $1.3B. Net debt is about 1.4B. International Paper could have been kinder when it spun out Sylvamo, but Sylvamo can handle the debt and pay it down.

Sylvamo produces uncoated free-sheet paper, or UFS, used to make copy paper and envelopes, and used in commercial printing. It also produces pulp for tissue and specialty paper, and coated paperboard for liquid packaging. It has operations in Latin America, North America, and Europe.

We think Sylvamo is a free-cash-flow machine. UFS is a much better business than people perceive. The company only has sparse coverage among securities analysts, which sets up the opportunity. We became familiar with UFS when we owned Packaging Corp. of America [PKG] which owns some UFS mills. While demand in North America may be declining long run, the industry structure is good. High-cost mills get converted to containerboard mills or are closed, keeping supply and demand in balance. In North America, Sylvamo has the lowest-cost mill. The other big player Domtar, was acquired by Paper Excellence in Canada, which is converting UFS mills to containerboard.

In Latin America, Sylvamo is the largest UFS producer, with 34% share. It owns forest plantations near its mills for a low cost source of fiber. About 70% of this paper is sold in 26 countries in Latin America, and the rest is exported, mainly to Europe. Demand for UFS is expected to grow in Latin America, and as this occurs, all things being equal, Sylvamo will export less and make more money selling locally. In Europe, Sylvamo has a great mill in Russia, on the border with Finland, and a good mill in France.

While Sylvamo saw decreasing demand during the pandemic, demand is so strong now that it and the industry are running full-out, increasing prices and passing along cost increases. We see normalized Ebita in the $600M to $700M range, and captial expenditures are about $140M. Picking the midpoint of our Ebita range, and after $140M of depreciation, we see operating income of about $60M and taxes of 30%, for normalized earnings of $7 a share. Over the next couple of years, the catalysts for a higher stock price are paying down a lot of debt, proving how good the business is, and paying a large dividend.

Sylvamo has a fantastic management team. Insiders have purchased shares, and I can see a dividend of $3 a share in a couple years from a company earning over $7 a share and trading at more than $50 a share.
"""

Lots of positives above. The other big positive is that after a spin-off, lots of investors just sell which depresses the stock price.

Negatives:
- Lot's of debt is bad
- I can't help thinking that IP gave them debt and the worst parts of the business
- These Barron's recommendations in their panel discussion are often pump and dump.

The stock is up almost 8% today. Is it just this recommendation?

Jul 15, 2023

Another glowing review of Sylvamo from Barron's Meryl Witmer.

"""
I recommeended Sylvamo last year, and the stock did well. But it has been volatile, and after a recent pullback to $40 or so, it looks undervalued. The company makes uncoated freesheet paper, used mainly in copy paper and envelopes. It has some the the best and lowest cost assets in the world, and keeeps them in good condition. The mills are in the U.S. Brazil, and Europe.

Sylvamo has guided Wall Street to expect $720M to $770M in Ebitda this year. It lowered its number earlier in the year because some imports flooded the market, but that situation has normalized. Running the midpoint of Ebitda guidance through the income statement gets me to estimated earnings of $9 a sharem, which means Sylvamo is selling for 4.4 times earnings. The balance sheet is realtively unlevered. It is possible that this is a sustainable run rate for earnings but I like to stress test it by taking Ebitda estimates down to $600M. Doing so still yields $6 of earnings, or a multiple of 6.7 times.

[catalyst]
Yes. Atlas Holdings, a private equity firm with other paper mill holdings has two representatives on the Sylvamo board. They really understand the industry and how to manage these companies. They are good capital allocators and will make sure Sylvamo's value is realized.
"""

I have a tiny portion of this company and it yields 2% and has a 5% payout ratio. I'm not sure how that's possible. The location is the Roth IRA so I only have $5K to invest. I might as well add a tiny bit to the already tiny position.

BUY $45.00

