
NAME: Measurement Specialties Inc.
CID: 0000778734

Feb 14, 2006

Produces various sensors and transducers to measure physical
characteristics, such as pressure, force, vibration, position,
humidity, and photo optics. These sensors are used for automotive,
medical, consumer, military/aerospace, and industrial applications.

Its consumer products include bathroom and kitchen scales, tire
pressure gauges, and distance estimators.  Worldwide seller.

Good growth but some kind of revenue catastrophe last quarter +
discontinued operations.  Sold consumer division Dec 19.

10Q

Large  number  of acquisitions  in  the  last  couple years.   Elekon,
Entran, Encoder, Humirel, MWS Sensorik, Polaron, and HLP,

Former CFO suing the company for not restating financial statements.
Doesn't sound good.

Here is a cut and past of the "Vision" of the company from the 10Q:

Our vision is to become a leading, global provider of sensors and
sensor-based solutions to the OEM and end-user markets. Our strategy
to achieve this vision is to:
 
  Provide application specific solutions - not simply products - to
  our customers with respect to their needs regarding sensing physical
  characteristics; -
	
  Focus on OEM, medium-to-high volume, application-engineered
  opportunities, where our design strength can make the difference;
	
  Take market share by leveraging the breadth of our technology
  portfolio and low-cost operating model. Grow 15% organically per
  year by:
	
    Our willingness to customize (standard platforms, custom solutions)
    Being a cost and service leader 
    Expanding our share in Europe and Asia 
    Efficiently servicing the low volume/end-user market
	
  Expand our addressable market by acquiring additional sensing
  technologies and expanding horizontally in the marketplace (versus
  vertically integrating). These acquisitions will allow us to address
  a larger portion of the sensor market, and increase our
  effectiveness in cross-selling various sensor solutions to the same
  customer.

Net sales in our Sensor business grew organically by 23% during fiscal
year 2005 as compared to fiscal year 2004, and by 15% during fiscal
year 2004 as compared to fiscal year 2003. We estimate the market
growth at approximately 5%. While this implies we are taking market
share, we estimate our addressable market at $3 to $4 billion
worldwide, and as such, our share of market is relatively small
(approximately 3%).

Consistent with our expansion strategy, we acquired six companies in
fiscal year 2005, and effective December 1, 2005 we sold our Consumer
division and acquired a company. Of these, four were considered
\u201ctuck\u201d acquisitions, where we acquired similar technology,
but gained new customers. In these cases, we look to leverage our
existing assets as much as possible and drive operational
synergies. The remaining three acquisitions represented technology
expansions, where we acquired a new technology that allowed us to
expand our total addressable market. We intend to continue to focus on
small, accretive acquisitions in the future, and leverage the
fragmentation in the marketplace.

To finance our acquisitions, we have used a combination of cash,
seller financing (including earn-out structures) and bank debt. We
currently have a $35 million credit facility with General Electric
Capital Corporation, which includes a $20 million term loan and a $15
million revolving credit facility of which $12,500 was available at
December 31, 2005. It is our expectation and intent to use cash and
add additional debt as appropriate to finance future acquisitions,
generally staying within a two times senior debt to EBITDA (defined as
\u201cearnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization)
ratio. Additionally, to fund future acquisitions we would consider the
issuance of subordinated debt, or the sale of equity securities, or
the sale of existing Company assets.

Trends.

Sensor Business: The sensor market is highly fragmented with hundreds
of niche players. While the worldwide sensors market that we serve is
expected to have a 5% Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR), we expect to
gain share and grow our Sensor business in excess of the market. As a
result of this growth strategy, we anticipate pursuing high volume
sensor business that will carry lower gross margins than our
traditional averages, which may influence our overall sensor gross
margins. Accordingly, we anticipate average gross margins in the
Sensor division for the next quarter to remain relatively consistent
with the margin in the current quarter.

--- END ---

shares 14,278,889 (diluted)

I'm not sure how to evaluate this company.  It is undergoing such a
huge transition so past earnings revenues seem to mean nothing.  Is it
better to wait a quarter or two and see how the non-consumer company
performs?
